-----------------------------------------------------------------------
NUMPY LICENSE
http://www.numpy.org/license.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright (c) 2005-2022, NumPy Developers.
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
       copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
       disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
       with the distribution.

    * Neither the name of the NumPy Developers nor the names of any
       contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
       from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
OPENCV LICENSE
https://github.com/opencv/opencv/blob/master/LICENSE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
FFMPEG LICENSE
https://github.com/opencv/opencv/blob/master/3rdparty/ffmpeg/license.txt
https://www.ffmpeg.org/legal.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

              Copyright (C) 2001 Fabrice Bellard

    FFmpeg is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
    modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
    version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

    FFmpeg is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
    Lesser General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License along with FFmpeg; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

                  GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 2.1, February 1999

 Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL.  It also counts
 as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence
 the version number 2.1.]

                            Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change
free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.

  This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some
specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the
Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it.  You
can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether
this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better
strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use,
not price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that
you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge
for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get
it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of
it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do
these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these
rights.  These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for
you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis
or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave
you.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
code.  If you link other code with the library, you must provide
complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them
with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling
it.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

  We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the
library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.

  To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that
there is no warranty for the free library.  Also, if the library is
modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know
that what they have is not the original version, so that the original
author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be
introduced by others.

  Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of
any free program.  We wish to make sure that a company cannot
effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a
restrictive license from a patent holder.  Therefore, we insist that
any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be
consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.

  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the
ordinary GNU General Public License.  This license, the GNU Lesser
General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and
is quite different from the ordinary General Public License.  We use
this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those
libraries into non-free programs.

  When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using
a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a
combined work, a derivative of the original library.  The ordinary
General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the
entire combination fits its criteria of freedom.  The Lesser General
Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with
the library.

  We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it
does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General
Public License.  It also provides other free software developers Less
of an advantage over competing non-free programs.  These disadvantages
are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many
libraries.  However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain
special circumstances.

  For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to
encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes
a de-facto standard.  To achieve this, non-free programs must be
allowed to use the library.  A more frequent case is that a free
library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries.  In this
case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free
software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

  In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free
programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of
free software.  For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in
non-free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU
operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating
system.

  Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the
users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is
linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run
that program using a modified version of the Library.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a
"work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library".  The
former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must
be combined with the library in order to run.

                  GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other
program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or
other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License").
Each licensee is addressed as "you".

  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.

  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work
which has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the
Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under
copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a
portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated
straightforwardly into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is
included without limitation in the term "modification".)

  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means
all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated
interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation
and installation of the library.

  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from
such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based
on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for
writing it).  Whether that is true depends on what the Library does
and what the program that uses the Library does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's
complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that
you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an
appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact
all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the
Library.

  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,
and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a
fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no
    charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.

    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a
    table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses
    the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility
    is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that,
    in the event an application does not supply such function or
    table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
    its purpose remains meaningful.

    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has
    a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the
    application.  Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any
    application-supplied function or table used by this function must
    be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
    root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote
it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library
with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do
this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so
that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2,
instead of to this License.  (If a newer version than version 2 of the
ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify
that version instead if you wish.)  Do not make any other change in
these notices.

  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for
that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all
subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.

  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of
the Library into a program that is not a library.

  4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or
derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form
under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany
it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which
must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange.

  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the
source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to
distribute the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the
Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or
linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a
work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and
therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library
creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it
contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the
library".  The executable is therefore covered by this License.
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.

  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file
that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a
derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not.
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be
linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.  The
threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.

  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data
structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline
functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object
file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative
work.  (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the
Library will still fall under Section 6.)

  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may
distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6,
whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.

  6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or
link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a
work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work
under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit
modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by
this License.  You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work
during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the
copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference
directing the user to the copy of this License.  Also, you must do one
of these things:

    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding
    machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever
    changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under
    Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked
    with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that
    uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the
    user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified
    executable containing the modified Library.  (It is understood
    that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the
    Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application
    to use the modified definitions.)

    b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
    Library.  A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a
    copy of the library already present on the user's computer system,
    rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2)
    will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if
    the user installs one, as long as the modified version is
    interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

    c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at
    least three years, to give the same user the materials
    specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more
    than the cost of performing this distribution.

    d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy
    from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above
    specified materials from the same place.

    e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these
    materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.

  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the
Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for
reproducing the executable from it.  However, as a special exception,
the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is
normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on
which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies
the executable.

  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license
restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally
accompany the operating system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot
use both them and the Library together in an executable that you
distribute.

  7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined
library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on
the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise
permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work
    based on the Library, uncombined with any other library
    facilities.  This must be distributed under the terms of the
    Sections above.

    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact
    that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining
    where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute
the Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any
attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or
distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your
rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies,
or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Library or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the
Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Library or works based on it.

  10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library
subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with
this License.

  11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Library at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply,
and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add
an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries,
so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus
excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if
written in the body of this License.

  13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new
versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time.
Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version,
but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and
"any later version", you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a
license version number, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

  14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these,
write to the author to ask for permission.  For software which is
copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free
Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our
decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status
of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing
and reuse of software generally.

                            NO WARRANTY

  15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO
WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

                     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
CUDA LICENSE
https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/archive/11.1.0/eula/index.html
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
End User License Agreement

NVIDIA Software License Agreement and CUDA Supplement to Software License Agreement.
Preface

The Software License Agreement in Chapter 1 and the Supplement in Chapter 2 contain license terms and conditions that govern the use of NVIDIA software. By accepting this agreement, you agree to comply with all the terms and conditions applicable to the product(s) included herein.
NVIDIA Driver
Description

This package contains the operating system driver and fundamental system software components for NVIDIA GPUs.
NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit
Description

The NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit provides command-line and graphical tools for building, debugging and optimizing the performance of applications accelerated by NVIDIA GPUs, runtime and math libraries, and documentation including programming guides, user manuals, and API references.
Default Install Location of CUDA Toolkit

Windows platform:

%ProgramFiles%\NVIDIA GPU Computing Toolkit\CUDA\v#.#

Linux platform:

/usr/local/cuda-#.#

Mac platform:

/Developer/NVIDIA/CUDA-#.#

NVIDIA CUDA Samples
Description

This package includes over 100+ CUDA examples that demonstrate various CUDA programming principles, and efficient CUDA implementation of algorithms in specific application domains.
Default Install Location of CUDA Samples

Windows platform:

%ProgramData%\NVIDIA Corporation\CUDA Samples\v#.#

Linux platform:

/usr/local/cuda-#.#/samples

and

$HOME/NVIDIA_CUDA-#.#_Samples

Mac platform:

/Developer/NVIDIA/CUDA-#.#/samples

NVIDIA Nsight Visual Studio Edition (Windows only)
Description

NVIDIA Nsight Development Platform, Visual Studio Edition is a development environment integrated into Microsoft Visual Studio that provides tools for debugging, profiling, analyzing and optimizing your GPU computing and graphics applications.
Default Install Location of Nsight Visual Studio Edition

Windows platform:

%ProgramFiles(x86)%\NVIDIA Corporation\Nsight Visual Studio Edition #.#

1. License Agreement for NVIDIA Software Development Kits
Release Date: July 26, 2018
Important Notice—Read before downloading, installing, copying or using the licensed software:

This license agreement, including exhibits attached ("Agreement”) is a legal agreement between you and NVIDIA Corporation ("NVIDIA") and governs your use of a NVIDIA software development kit (“SDK”).

Each SDK has its own set of software and materials, but here is a description of the types of items that may be included in a SDK: source code, header files, APIs, data sets and assets (examples include images, textures, models, scenes, videos, native API input/output files), binary software, sample code, libraries, utility programs, programming code and documentation.

This Agreement can be accepted only by an adult of legal age of majority in the country in which the SDK is used.

If you are entering into this Agreement on behalf of a company or other legal entity, you represent that you have the legal authority to bind the entity to this Agreement, in which case “you” will mean the entity you represent.

If you don’t have the required age or authority to accept this Agreement, or if you don’t accept all the terms and conditions of this Agreement, do not download, install or use the SDK.

You agree to use the SDK only for purposes that are permitted by (a) this Agreement, and (b) any applicable law, regulation or generally accepted practices or guidelines in the relevant jurisdictions.
1.1. License
1.1.1. License Grant

Subject to the terms of this Agreement, NVIDIA hereby grants you a non-exclusive, non-transferable license, without the right to sublicense (except as expressly provided in this Agreement) to:

    Install and use the SDK,
    Modify and create derivative works of sample source code delivered in the SDK, and
    Distribute those portions of the SDK that are identified in this Agreement as distributable, as incorporated in object code format into a software application that meets the distribution requirements indicated in this Agreement.

1.1.2. Distribution Requirements
These are the distribution requirements for you to exercise the distribution grant:

    Your application must have material additional functionality, beyond the included portions of the SDK.
    The distributable portions of the SDK shall only be accessed by your application.
    The following notice shall be included in modifications and derivative works of sample source code distributed: “This software contains source code provided by NVIDIA Corporation.”
    Unless a developer tool is identified in this Agreement as distributable, it is delivered for your internal use only.
    The terms under which you distribute your application must be consistent with the terms of this Agreement, including (without limitation) terms relating to the license grant and license restrictions and protection of NVIDIA’s intellectual property rights. Additionally, you agree that you will protect the privacy, security and legal rights of your application users.
    You agree to notify NVIDIA in writing of any known or suspected distribution or use of the SDK not in compliance with the requirements of this Agreement, and to enforce the terms of your agreements with respect to distributed SDK.

1.1.3. Authorized Users

You may allow employees and contractors of your entity or of your subsidiary(ies) to access and use the SDK from your secure network to perform work on your behalf.

If you are an academic institution you may allow users enrolled or employed by the academic institution to access and use the SDK from your secure network.

You are responsible for the compliance with the terms of this Agreement by your authorized users. If you become aware that your authorized users didn’t follow the terms of this Agreement, you agree to take reasonable steps to resolve the non-compliance and prevent new occurrences.
1.1.4. Pre-Release SDK

The SDK versions identified as alpha, beta, preview or otherwise as pre-release, may not be fully functional, may contain errors or design flaws, and may have reduced or different security, privacy, accessibility, availability, and reliability standards relative to commercial versions of NVIDIA software and materials. Use of a pre-release SDK may result in unexpected results, loss of data, project delays or other unpredictable damage or loss.

You may use a pre-release SDK at your own risk, understanding that pre-release SDKs are not intended for use in production or business-critical systems.

NVIDIA may choose not to make available a commercial version of any pre-release SDK. NVIDIA may also choose to abandon development and terminate the availability of a pre-release SDK at any time without liability.
1.1.5. Updates

NVIDIA may, at its option, make available patches, workarounds or other updates to this SDK. Unless the updates are provided with their separate governing terms, they are deemed part of the SDK licensed to you as provided in this Agreement. You agree that the form and content of the SDK that NVIDIA provides may change without prior notice to you. While NVIDIA generally maintains compatibility between versions, NVIDIA may in some cases make changes that introduce incompatibilities in future versions of the SDK.
1.1.6. Third Party Licenses

The SDK may come bundled with, or otherwise include or be distributed with, third party software licensed by a NVIDIA supplier and/or open source software provided under an open source license. Use of third party software is subject to the third-party license terms, or in the absence of third party terms, the terms of this Agreement. Copyright to third party software is held by the copyright holders indicated in the third-party software or license.
1.1.7. Reservation of Rights

NVIDIA reserves all rights, title, and interest in and to the SDK, not expressly granted to you under this Agreement.
1.2. Limitations
The following license limitations apply to your use of the SDK:

    You may not reverse engineer, decompile or disassemble, or remove copyright or other proprietary notices from any portion of the SDK or copies of the SDK.
    Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, you may not copy, sell, rent, sublicense, transfer, distribute, modify, or create derivative works of any portion of the SDK. For clarity, you may not distribute or sublicense the SDK as a stand-alone product.
    Unless you have an agreement with NVIDIA for this purpose, you may not indicate that an application created with the SDK is sponsored or endorsed by NVIDIA.
    You may not bypass, disable, or circumvent any encryption, security, digital rights management or authentication mechanism in the SDK.
    You may not use the SDK in any manner that would cause it to become subject to an open source software license. As examples, licenses that require as a condition of use, modification, and/or distribution that the SDK be:
        Disclosed or distributed in source code form;
        Licensed for the purpose of making derivative works; or
        Redistributable at no charge.
    Unless you have an agreement with NVIDIA for this purpose, you may not use the SDK with any system or application where the use or failure of the system or application can reasonably be expected to threaten or result in personal injury, death, or catastrophic loss. Examples include use in nuclear, avionics, navigation, military, medical, life support or other life critical applications. NVIDIA does not design, test or manufacture the SDK for these critical uses and NVIDIA shall not be liable to you or any third party, in whole or in part, for any claims or damages arising from such uses.
    You agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless NVIDIA and its affiliates, and their respective employees, contractors, agents, officers and directors, from and against any and all claims, damages, obligations, losses, liabilities, costs or debt, fines, restitutions and expenses (including but not limited to attorney’s fees and costs incident to establishing the right of indemnification) arising out of or related to your use of the SDK outside of the scope of this Agreement, or not in compliance with its terms.

1.3. Ownership

    NVIDIA or its licensors hold all rights, title and interest in and to the SDK and its modifications and derivative works, including their respective intellectual property rights, subject to your rights described here . This SDK may include software and materials from NVIDIA’s licensors, and these licensors are intended third party beneficiaries that may enforce this Agreement with respect to their intellectual property rights.
    You hold all rights, title and interest in and to your applications and your derivative works of the sample source code delivered in the SDK, including their respective intellectual property rights, subject to NVIDIA’s rights described here .
    You may, but don’t have to, provide to NVIDIA suggestions, feature requests or other feedback regarding the SDK, including possible enhancements or modifications to the SDK. For any feedback that you voluntarily provide, you hereby grant NVIDIA and its affiliates a perpetual, non-exclusive, worldwide, irrevocable license to use, reproduce, modify, license, sublicense (through multiple tiers of sublicensees), and distribute (through multiple tiers of distributors) it without the payment of any royalties or fees to you. NVIDIA will use feedback at its choice. NVIDIA is constantly looking for ways to improve its products, so you may send feedback to NVIDIA through the developer portal at https://developer.nvidia.com.

1.4. No Warranties

THE SDK IS PROVIDED BY NVIDIA “AS IS” AND “WITH ALL FAULTS.” TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, NVIDIA AND ITS AFFILIATES EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND OR NATURE, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, OR THE ABSENCE OF ANY DEFECTS THEREIN, WHETHER LATENT OR PATENT. NO WARRANTY IS MADE ON THE BASIS OF TRADE USAGE, COURSE OF DEALING OR COURSE OF TRADE.
1.5. Limitation of Liability

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, NVIDIA AND ITS AFFILIATES SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY LOST PROFITS, LOSS OF USE, LOSS OF DATA OR LOSS OF GOODWILL, OR THE COSTS OF PROCURING SUBSTITUTE PRODUCTS, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE SDK, WHETHER SUCH LIABILITY ARISES FROM ANY CLAIM BASED UPON BREACH OF CONTRACT, BREACH OF WARRANTY, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), PRODUCT LIABILITY OR ANY OTHER CAUSE OF ACTION OR THEORY OF LIABILITY. IN NO EVENT WILL NVIDIA’S AND ITS AFFILIATES TOTAL CUMULATIVE LIABILITY UNDER OR ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT EXCEED US$10.00. THE NATURE OF THE LIABILITY OR THE NUMBER OF CLAIMS OR SUITS SHALL NOT ENLARGE OR EXTEND THIS LIMIT.

These exclusions and limitations of liability shall apply regardless if NVIDIA or its affiliates have been advised of the possibility of such damages, and regardless of whether a remedy fails its essential purpose. These exclusions and limitations of liability form an essential basis of the bargain between the parties, and, absent any of these exclusions or limitations of liability, the provisions of this Agreement, including, without limitation, the economic terms, would be substantially different.
1.6. Termination

    This Agreement will continue to apply until terminated by either you or NVIDIA as described below.
    If you want to terminate this Agreement, you may do so by stopping to use the SDK.
    NVIDIA may, at any time, terminate this Agreement if:
        (i) you fail to comply with any term of this Agreement and the non-compliance is not fixed within thirty (30) days following notice from NVIDIA (or immediately if you violate NVIDIA’s intellectual property rights);
        (ii) you commence or participate in any legal proceeding against NVIDIA with respect to the SDK; or
        (iii) NVIDIA decides to no longer provide the SDK in a country or, in NVIDIA’s sole discretion, the continued use of it is no longer commercially viable.
    Upon any termination of this Agreement, you agree to promptly discontinue use of the SDK and destroy all copies in your possession or control. Your prior distributions in accordance with this Agreement are not affected by the termination of this Agreement. Upon written request, you will certify in writing that you have complied with your commitments under this section. Upon any termination of this Agreement all provisions survive except for the license grant provisions.

1.7. General

If you wish to assign this Agreement or your rights and obligations, including by merger, consolidation, dissolution or operation of law, contact NVIDIA to ask for permission. Any attempted assignment not approved by NVIDIA in writing shall be void and of no effect. NVIDIA may assign, delegate or transfer this Agreement and its rights and obligations, and if to a non-affiliate you will be notified.

You agree to cooperate with NVIDIA and provide reasonably requested information to verify your compliance with this Agreement.

This Agreement will be governed in all respects by the laws of the United States and of the State of Delaware as those laws are applied to contracts entered into and performed entirely within Delaware by Delaware residents, without regard to the conflicts of laws principles. The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is specifically disclaimed. You agree to all terms of this Agreement in the English language.

The state or federal courts residing in Santa Clara County, California shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any dispute or claim arising out of this Agreement. Notwithstanding this, you agree that NVIDIA shall still be allowed to apply for injunctive remedies or an equivalent type of urgent legal relief in any jurisdiction.

If any court of competent jurisdiction determines that any provision of this Agreement is illegal, invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be construed as limited to the extent necessary to be consistent with and fully enforceable under the law and the remaining provisions will remain in full force and effect. Unless otherwise specified, remedies are cumulative.

Each party acknowledges and agrees that the other is an independent contractor in the performance of this Agreement.

The SDK has been developed entirely at private expense and is “commercial items” consisting of “commercial computer software” and “commercial computer software documentation” provided with RESTRICTED RIGHTS. Use, duplication or disclosure by the U.S. Government or a U.S. Government subcontractor is subject to the restrictions in this Agreement pursuant to DFARS 227.7202-3(a) or as set forth in subparagraphs (c)(1) and (2) of the Commercial Computer Software - Restricted Rights clause at FAR 52.227-19, as applicable. Contractor/manufacturer is NVIDIA, 2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, CA 95051.

The SDK is subject to United States export laws and regulations. You agree that you will not ship, transfer or export the SDK into any country, or use the SDK in any manner, prohibited by the United States Bureau of Industry and Security or economic sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), or any applicable export laws, restrictions or regulations. These laws include restrictions on destinations, end users and end use. By accepting this Agreement, you confirm that you are not a resident or citizen of any country currently embargoed by the U.S. and that you are not otherwise prohibited from receiving the SDK.

Any notice delivered by NVIDIA to you under this Agreement will be delivered via mail, email or fax. You agree that any notices that NVIDIA sends you electronically will satisfy any legal communication requirements. Please direct your legal notices or other correspondence to NVIDIA Corporation, 2788 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara, California 95051, United States of America, Attention: Legal Department.

This Agreement and any exhibits incorporated into this Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersede all prior negotiations or documentation exchanged between the parties relating to this SDK license. Any additional and/or conflicting terms on documents issued by you are null, void, and invalid. Any amendment or waiver under this Agreement shall be in writing and signed by representatives of both parties.
2. CUDA Toolkit Supplement to Software License Agreement for NVIDIA Software Development Kits
Release date: August 16, 2018

The terms in this supplement govern your use of the NVIDIA CUDA Toolkit SDK under the terms of your license agreement (“Agreement”) as modified by this supplement. Capitalized terms used but not defined below have the meaning assigned to them in the Agreement.

This supplement is an exhibit to the Agreement and is incorporated as an integral part of the Agreement. In the event of conflict between the terms in this supplement and the terms in the Agreement, the terms in this supplement govern.
2.1. License Scope

The SDK is licensed for you to develop applications only for use in systems with NVIDIA GPUs.
2.2. Distribution

The portions of the SDK that are distributable under the Agreement are listed in Attachment A.
2.3. Operating Systems

Those portions of the SDK designed exclusively for use on the Linux or FreeBSD operating systems, or other operating systems derived from the source code to these operating systems, may be copied and redistributed for use in accordance with this Agreement, provided that the object code files are not modified in any way (except for unzipping of compressed files).
2.4. Audio and Video Encoders and Decoders

You acknowledge and agree that it is your sole responsibility to obtain any additional third-party licenses required to make, have made, use, have used, sell, import, and offer for sale your products or services that include or incorporate any third-party software and content relating to audio and/or video encoders and decoders from, including but not limited to, Microsoft, Thomson, Fraunhofer IIS, Sisvel S.p.A., MPEG-LA, and Coding Technologies. NVIDIA does not grant to you under this Agreement any necessary patent or other rights with respect to any audio and/or video encoders and decoders.
2.5. Licensing

If the distribution terms in this Agreement are not suitable for your organization, or for any questions regarding this Agreement, please contact NVIDIA at nvidia-compute-license-questions@nvidia.com.
2.6. Attachment A

The following CUDA Toolkit files may be distributed with Licensee Applications developed by you, including certain variations of these files that have version number or architecture specific information embedded in the file name - as an example only, for release version 9.0 of the 64-bit Windows software, the file cudart64_90.dll is redistributable.
Component 	CUDA Runtime
Windows 	cudart.dll, cudart_static.lib, cudadevrt.lib
Mac OSX 	libcudart.dylib, libcudart_static.a, libcudadevrt.a
Linux 	libcudart.so, libcudart_static.a, libcudadevrt.a
Android 	libcudart.so, libcudart_static.a, libcudadevrt.a
Component 	CUDA FFT Library
Windows 	cufft.dll, cufftw.dll, cufft.lib, cufftw.lib
Mac OSX 	libcufft.dylib, libcufft_static.a, libcufftw.dylib, libcufftw_static.a
Linux 	libcufft.so, libcufft_static.a, libcufftw.so, libcufftw_static.a
Android 	libcufft.so, libcufft_static.a, libcufftw.so, libcufftw_static.a
Component 	CUDA BLAS Library
Windows 	cublas.dll, cublasLt.dll
Mac OSX 	libcublas.dylib, libcublasLt.dylib, libcublas_static.a, libcublasLt_static.a
Linux 	libcublas.so, libcublasLt.so, libcublas_static.a, libcublasLt_static.a
Android 	libcublas.so, libcublasLt.so, libcublas_static.a, libcublasLt_static.a
Component 	NVIDIA "Drop-in" BLAS Library
Windows 	nvblas.dll
Mac OSX 	libnvblas.dylib
Linux 	libnvblas.so
Component 	CUDA Sparse Matrix Library
Windows 	cusparse.dll, cusparse.lib
Mac OSX 	libcusparse.dylib, libcusparse_static.a
Linux 	libcusparse.so, libcusparse_static.a
Android 	libcusparse.so, libcusparse_static.a
Component 	CUDA Linear Solver Library
Windows 	cusolver.dll, cusolver.lib
Mac OSX 	libcusolver.dylib, libcusolver_static.a
Linux 	libcusolver.so, libcusolver_static.a
Android 	libcusolver.so, libcusolver_static.a
Component 	CUDA Random Number Generation Library
Windows 	curand.dll, curand.lib
Mac OSX 	libcurand.dylib, libcurand_static.a
Linux 	libcurand.so, libcurand_static.a
Android 	libcurand.so, libcurand_static.a
Component 	NVIDIA Performance Primitives Library
Windows 	nppc.dll, nppc.lib, nppial.dll, nppial.lib, nppicc.dll, nppicc.lib, nppicom.dll, nppicom.lib, nppidei.dll, nppidei.lib, nppif.dll, nppif.lib, nppig.dll, nppig.lib, nppim.dll, nppim.lib, nppist.dll, nppist.lib, nppisu.dll, nppisu.lib, nppitc.dll, nppitc.lib, npps.dll, npps.lib
Mac OSX 	libnppc.dylib, libnppc_static.a, libnppial.dylib, libnppial_static.a, libnppicc.dylib, libnppicc_static.a, libnppicom.dylib, libnppicom_static.a, libnppidei.dylib, libnppidei_static.a, libnppif.dylib, libnppif_static.a, libnppig.dylib, libnppig_static.a, libnppim.dylib, libnppisu_static.a, libnppitc.dylib, libnppitc_static.a, libnpps.dylib, libnpps_static.a
Linux 	libnppc.so, libnppc_static.a, libnppial.so, libnppial_static.a, libnppicc.so, libnppicc_static.a, libnppicom.so, libnppicom_static.a, libnppidei.so, libnppidei_static.a, libnppif.so, libnppif_static.a libnppig.so, libnppig_static.a, libnppim.so, libnppim_static.a, libnppist.so, libnppist_static.a, libnppisu.so, libnppisu_static.a, libnppitc.so libnppitc_static.a, libnpps.so, libnpps_static.a
Android 	libnppc.so, libnppc_static.a, libnppial.so, libnppial_static.a, libnppicc.so, libnppicc_static.a, libnppicom.so, libnppicom_static.a, libnppidei.so, libnppidei_static.a, libnppif.so, libnppif_static.a libnppig.so, libnppig_static.a, libnppim.so, libnppim_static.a, libnppist.so, libnppist_static.a, libnppisu.so, libnppisu_static.a, libnppitc.so libnppitc_static.a, libnpps.so, libnpps_static.a
Component 	NVIDIA JPEG Library
Linux 	libnvjpeg.so, libnvjpeg_static.a
Component 	Internal common library required for statically linking to cuBLAS, cuSPARSE, cuFFT, cuRAND, nvJPEG and NPP
Mac OSX 	libculibos.a
Linux 	libculibos.a
Component 	NVIDIA Runtime Compilation Library and Header
All 	nvrtc.h
Windows 	nvrtc.dll, nvrtc-builtins.dll
Mac OSX 	libnvrtc.dylib, libnvrtc-builtins.dylib
Linux 	libnvrtc.so, libnvrtc-builtins.so
Component 	NVIDIA Optimizing Compiler Library
Windows 	nvvm.dll
Mac OSX 	libnvvm.dylib
Linux 	libnvvm.so
Component 	NVIDIA Common Device Math Functions Library
Windows 	libdevice.10.bc
Mac OSX 	libdevice.10.bc
Linux 	libdevice.10.bc
Component 	CUDA Occupancy Calculation Header Library
All 	cuda_occupancy.h
Component 	CUDA Half Precision Headers
All 	cuda_fp16.h, cuda_fp16.hpp
Component 	CUDA Profiling Tools Interface (CUPTI) Library
Windows 	cupti.dll
Mac OSX 	libcupti.dylib
Linux 	libcupti.so
Component 	NVIDIA Tools Extension Library
Windows 	nvToolsExt.dll, nvToolsExt.lib
Mac OSX 	libnvToolsExt.dylib
Linux 	libnvToolsExt.so
Component 	NVIDIA CUDA Driver Libraries
Linux 	libcuda.so, libnvidia-ptxjitcompiler.so
Component 	PTX Compiler Static Library (nvPTXCompiler.h)
Windows 	nvptxcompiler_static.lib
Linux 	libnvptxcompiler_static.a

The NVIDIA CUDA Driver Libraries are only distributable in applications that meet this criteria:

    The application was developed starting from a NVIDIA CUDA container obtained from Docker Hub or the NVIDIA GPU Cloud, and
    The resulting application is packaged as a Docker container and distributed to users on Docker Hub or the NVIDIA GPU Cloud only.

In addition to the rights above, for parties that are developing software intended solely for use on Jetson development kits or Jetson modules, and running Linux for Tegra software, the following shall apply:

    The SDK may be distributed in its entirety, as provided by NVIDIA, and without separation of its components, for you and/or your licensees to create software development kits for use only on the Jetson platform and running Linux for Tegra software.

2.7. Attachment B
Additional Licensing Obligations

The following third party components included in the SOFTWARE are licensed to Licensee pursuant to the following terms and conditions:

Licensee's use of the GDB third party component is subject to the terms and conditions of GNU GPL v3:

This product includes copyrighted third-party software licensed
under the terms of the GNU General Public License v3 ("GPL v3").
All third-party software packages are copyright by their respective
authors. GPL v3 terms and conditions are hereby incorporated into
the Agreement by this reference: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.txt

Consistent with these licensing requirements, the software listed below is provided under the terms of the specified open source software licenses. To obtain source code for software provided under licenses that require redistribution of source code, including the GNU General Public License (GPL) and GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL), contact oss-requests@nvidia.com. This offer is valid for a period of three (3) years from the date of the distribution of this product by NVIDIA CORPORATION.

Component          License
CUDA-GDB           GPL v3

Licensee represents and warrants that any and all third party licensing and/or royalty payment obligations in connection with Licensee's use of the H.264 video codecs are solely the responsibility of Licensee.

Licensee's use of the Thrust library is subject to the terms and conditions of the Apache License Version 2.0. All third-party software packages are copyright by their respective authors. Apache License Version 2.0 terms and conditions are hereby incorporated into the Agreement by this reference. http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html

In addition, Licensee acknowledges the following notice: Thrust includes source code from the Boost Iterator, Tuple, System, and Random Number libraries.

Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003
. . . .

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or
organization obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying
documentation covered by this license (the "Software") to use,
reproduce, display, distribute, execute, and transmit the Software,
and to prepare derivative works of the Software, and to permit
third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to do so, all
subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement,
including the above license grant, this restriction and the following
disclaimer, must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole
or in part, and all derivative works of the Software, unless such
copies or derivative works are solely in the form of machine-executable
object code generated by a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND
NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR
ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Licensee's use of the LLVM third party component is subject to the following terms and conditions:

======================================================
LLVM Release License
======================================================
University of Illinois/NCSA
Open Source License

Copyright (c) 2003-2010 University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
All rights reserved.

Developed by:

    LLVM Team

    University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

    http://llvm.org

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to
deal with the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

*  Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimers.

*  Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimers in the
    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

*  Neither the names of the LLVM Team, University of Illinois at Urbana-
    Champaign, nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or
    promote products derived from this Software without specific prior
    written permission.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE CONTRIBUTORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS WITH THE SOFTWARE.

Licensee's use (e.g. nvprof) of the PCRE third party component is subject to the following terms and conditions:

------------
PCRE LICENCE
------------
PCRE is a library of functions to support regular expressions whose syntax
and semantics are as close as possible to those of the Perl 5 language.
Release 8 of PCRE is distributed under the terms of the "BSD" licence, as
specified below. The documentation for PCRE, supplied in the "doc"
directory, is distributed under the same terms as the software itself. The
basic library functions are written in C and are freestanding. Also
included in the distribution is a set of C++ wrapper functions, and a just-
in-time compiler that can be used to optimize pattern matching. These are
both optional features that can be omitted when the library is built.

THE BASIC LIBRARY FUNCTIONS
---------------------------
Written by:       Philip Hazel
Email local part: ph10
Email domain:     cam.ac.uk
University of Cambridge Computing Service,
Cambridge, England.
Copyright (c) 1997-2012 University of Cambridge
All rights reserved.

PCRE JUST-IN-TIME COMPILATION SUPPORT
-------------------------------------
Written by:       Zoltan Herczeg
Email local part: hzmester
Emain domain:     freemail.hu
Copyright(c) 2010-2012 Zoltan Herczeg
All rights reserved.

STACK-LESS JUST-IN-TIME COMPILER
--------------------------------
Written by:       Zoltan Herczeg
Email local part: hzmester
Emain domain:     freemail.hu
Copyright(c) 2009-2012 Zoltan Herczeg
All rights reserved.

THE C++ WRAPPER FUNCTIONS
-------------------------
Contributed by:   Google Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007-2012, Google Inc.
All rights reserved.

THE "BSD" LICENCE
-----------------
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

  * Neither the name of the University of Cambridge nor the name of Google
    Inc. nor the names of their contributors may be used to endorse or
    promote products derived from this software without specific prior
    written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or derived from code written by Vasily Volkov and are subject to the Modified Berkeley Software Distribution License as follows:

Copyright (c) 2007-2009, Regents of the University of California

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
      disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
      with the distribution.
    * Neither the name of the University of California, Berkeley nor
      the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote
      products derived from this software without specific prior
      written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or derived from code written by Davide Barbieri and are subject to the Modified Berkeley Software Distribution License as follows:

Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Davide Barbieri @ University of Rome Tor Vergata.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
      disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
      with the distribution.
    * The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
      products derived from this software without specific prior
      written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Some of the cuBLAS library routines were derived from code developed by the University of Tennessee and are subject to the Modified Berkeley Software Distribution License as follows:

Copyright (c) 2010 The University of Tennessee.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
      disclaimer listed in this license in the documentation and/or
      other materials provided with the distribution.
    * Neither the name of the copyright holders nor the names of its
      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
      from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or derived from code written by Jonathan Hogg and are subject to the Modified Berkeley Software Distribution License as follows:

Copyright (c) 2012, The Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC).

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
      disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
      with the distribution.
    * Neither the name of the STFC nor the names of its contributors
      may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
      software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE STFC BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN
IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Some of the cuBLAS library routines were written by or derived from code written by Ahmad M. Abdelfattah, David Keyes, and Hatem Ltaief, and are subject to the Apache License, Version 2.0, as follows:

  -- (C) Copyright 2013 King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
  Authors:
  Ahmad Abdelfattah (ahmad.ahmad@kaust.edu.sa)
  David Keyes (david.keyes@kaust.edu.sa)
  Hatem Ltaief (hatem.ltaief@kaust.edu.sa)

  Redistribution  and  use  in  source and binary forms, with or without
  modification,  are  permitted  provided  that the following conditions
  are met:

  * Redistributions  of  source  code  must  retain  the above copyright
    notice,  this  list  of  conditions  and  the  following  disclaimer.
  * Redistributions  in  binary  form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice,  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
    documentation  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
  * Neither  the  name of the King Abdullah University of Science and
    Technology nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse
    or promote products derived from this software without specific prior
    written permission.

  THIS  SOFTWARE  IS  PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
  ``AS IS''  AND  ANY  EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
  LIMITED  TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
  A  PARTICULAR  PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
  HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
  SPECIAL,  EXEMPLARY,  OR  CONSEQUENTIAL  DAMAGES  (INCLUDING,  BUT NOT
  LIMITED  TO,  PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
  DATA,  OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
  THEORY  OF  LIABILITY,  WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
  (INCLUDING  NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
  OF  THIS  SOFTWARE,  EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE

Some of the cuSPARSE library routines were written by or derived from code written by Li-Wen Chang and are subject to the NCSA Open Source License as follows:

Copyright (c) 2012, University of Illinois.

All rights reserved.

Developed by: IMPACT Group, University of Illinois, http://impact.crhc.illinois.edu

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal with the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
      disclaimers in the documentation and/or other materials provided
      with the distribution.
    * Neither the names of IMPACT Group, University of Illinois, nor
      the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote
      products derived from this Software without specific prior
      written permission.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE CONTRIBUTORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR
IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS WITH THE
SOFTWARE.

Some of the cuRAND library routines were written by or derived from code written by Mutsuo Saito and Makoto Matsumoto and are subject to the following license:

Copyright (c) 2009, 2010 Mutsuo Saito, Makoto Matsumoto and Hiroshima
University. All rights reserved.

Copyright (c) 2011 Mutsuo Saito, Makoto Matsumoto, Hiroshima
University and University of Tokyo.  All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
      disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
      with the distribution.
    * Neither the name of the Hiroshima University nor the names of
      its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
      derived from this software without specific prior written
      permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Some of the cuRAND library routines were derived from code developed by D. E. Shaw Research and are subject to the following license:

Copyright 2010-2011, D. E. Shaw Research.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:
    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
      copyright notice, this list of conditions, and the following
      disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
      with the distribution.
    * Neither the name of D. E. Shaw Research nor the names of its
      contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
      from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Some of the Math library routines were written by or derived from code developed by Norbert Juffa and are subject to the following license:

Copyright (c) 2015-2017, Norbert Juffa
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Licensee's use of the lz4 third party component is subject to the following terms and conditions:

Copyright (C) 2011-2013, Yann Collet.
BSD 2-Clause License (http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php)

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

The NPP library uses code from the Boost Math Toolkit, and is subject to the following license:

Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003
. . . .

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or
organization obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying
documentation covered by this license (the "Software") to use,
reproduce, display, distribute, execute, and transmit the Software,
and to prepare derivative works of the Software, and to permit
third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to do so, all
subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement,
including the above license grant, this restriction and the following
disclaimer, must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole
or in part, and all derivative works of the Software, unless such
copies or derivative works are solely in the form of machine-executable
object code generated by a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND
NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR
ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Portions of the Nsight Eclipse Edition is subject to the following license:

The Eclipse Foundation makes available all content in this plug-in
("Content"). Unless otherwise indicated below, the Content is provided
to you under the terms and conditions of the Eclipse Public License
Version 1.0 ("EPL"). A copy of the EPL is available at http://
www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html. For purposes of the EPL, "Program"
will mean the Content.

If you did not receive this Content directly from the Eclipse
Foundation, the Content is being redistributed by another party
("Redistributor") and different terms and conditions may apply to your
use of any object code in the Content. Check the Redistributor's
license that was provided with the Content. If no such license exists,
contact the Redistributor. Unless otherwise indicated below, the terms
and conditions of the EPL still apply to any source code in the
Content and such source code may be obtained at http://www.eclipse.org.

Some of the cuBLAS library routines uses code from OpenAI, which is subject to the following license:

License URL
https://github.com/openai/openai-gemm/blob/master/LICENSE

License Text
The MIT License

Copyright (c) 2016 OpenAI (http://openai.com), 2016 Google Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

Licensee's use of the Visual Studio Setup Configuration Samples is subject to the following license:

The MIT License (MIT)
Copyright (C) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction,
including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge,
publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software,
and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Licensee's use of linmath.h header for CPU functions for GL vector/matrix operations from lunarG is subject to the Apache License Version 2.0.
The DX12-CUDA sample uses the d3dx12.h header, which is subject to the MIT license.
